---
layout: post
title:  "Day 3"
meta: HTML Structural Elements, CSS Specificity, and Git
one: true
permalink: /08.26.15/
---
#### Notes:
- Check-in on how HW went
- Debugging HW
- HTML Structural Elements
    + div
    + header
    + nav
        * nav structure
    + section
    + article
    + aside
    + footer
- CSS Selectors/Specificity
    + Element
    + Descendent 
    + Parent/Direct Child (>)
    + General Siblings (~)
    + Direct Siblings (+)
    + Pseudo Classes
        * Hover
        * Active
        * Focus
        * Visited
    + Pseudo Elements
        * ::before
        * ::after
    + Universal Selectors
        * *
- Paths
    + Absolute
    + Site Root Relative
    + Document Relative
    + ../
- Box-Sizing: Border-Box

#### Assignment:
Everyday a bit of written, audio, or video resources will be assigned to review, which will supplement class assignments. Assignments are always due by 8:00am of the following day, unless noted. Thursday Assignments will be due Monday morning.

#### Reading/Video Assignments
- [Writing Better CSS](http://adamkaplan.me/blog/write-better-css/)
- [Principles of writing idiomatic, consistent CSS](https://github.com/necolas/idiomatic-css)
- [What the ../?](http://900dpi.com/blog/Learn-HTML/What-the-Everything-you-ever-wanted-to-know-about-paths-on-the-web)

##### Description
Using what you learned in lecture and reading, re-create the following small-screen layout.  

##### Objectives
- Understand the different types of CSS Specificity and how they are used
- Apply understanding of display and floats for positioning elements.
- Practice the box model
- Practice different HTML5 syntax (header, footer, section, nav, and div)

##### Performance Objectives
After completing this assignment, you should be able to effectively 

- Be able to write syntactically correct CSS that is clean and organized
- Use HTML structural elements to create a small screen layout of a website from a composition

##### Details

Deliverables
- Create a project folder called “day_03”
- The HTML file must be called index.html
- The CSS file must be called style.css

#### High Trek Site - Small Format 
- Use the following layouts to complete this assigment:
    + [Outer Layer](/assets/8.26.15/high-trek/outer_layer.jpg)
    + [Inner Layer](/assets/8.26.15/high-trek/inner_layer.jpg)
- Using your knowledge of HTML and CSS, code the "outer_layer.jpg" layout.  Try to be as close as you can with color, size, shape, fonts, etc. You can use the following tools to help:
    + Color Picker (download from Mac App store)- allows you to eye-dropper colors
    + Screen Capture (command + shift + 4)- will tell you the dimensions of an element/spacing if you drag around it

#### Design Critique
- Find one example of a website that has good design and be ready to defend the your decision

#### Additional Resources/Reading
- [What's the Deal With display: inline-block?](http://designshack.net/articles/css/whats-the-deal-with-display-inline-block/)
- [All About Floats](https://css-tricks.com/all-about-floats/)
- [HTML Element Reference](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element)
- [CSS Reference](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference)
