---
layout: post
title:  "Day 1"
meta: Welcome and Basic HTML and CSS
one: true
permalink: /08.24.15/
meta: Welcome and HTML and CSS Basics
---
#### Notes:
- Welcome and expectations
- Computer Setup
    - Programs that should already be installed: Sublime, Photoshop, Illustrator, Chrome Safari
- HTML and CSS Basics
    - Why Standards exist
    - Basic structure of an HTML site
        - Opening/Closing Tag
    - Tags/Attributes
        - title
        - meta
        - h1 - 6
        - p
        - div
    - Self closing tags
        - img
    - CSS
        - 3 ways to include CSS
            - inline
            - block 
            - link tag
        - Selecting: Class, ID, and Element with CSS
        - Font
            - size
            - color
        - Dimensions
            - width
            - min-height
        - Positioning
            - float
            - display
        * Background Properties
            - image
            - position
            - repeat
            - color
        - CSS reset

#### Assignment:
Everyday a bit of written, audio, or video resources will be assigned to review, which will supplement class assignments. Assignments are always due by 8:00am of the following day, unless noted. Thursday Assignments will be due Monday morning.

#### Reading/Video Assignments
- [CSS Positioning Video](https://css-tricks.com/video-screencasts/110-quick-overview-of-css-position-values/)

#### About Me Page

##### Description
Using what you learned in lecture and reading, make a 1-page HTML and CSS site about yourself. Have fun with it and use as many tags as you’d like from our lecture links, and any new ones you learn about in your reading.

Write at least two paragraphs about yourself and include information about such as your favorite food and music! After all, we are in the best city for both of those things!

##### Objectives
- Understand the relationship between HTML and CSS.
- Identity the differences between an element, an attribute, and properties.
- Understand the basic syntax of HTML and CSS,
- Understand how to successfully connect an HTML and CSS file together.
- Understand how to organize folders and archive them on a mac.

##### Performance Objectives
After completing this assignment, you should be able to effectively use

- Use Sublime to create an HTML and CSS file.
- Use basic functions for saving within a mac’s finder.

##### Details

Deliverables

- Students should save both the index.html and the style.css in a folder titled “day_01” that is inside the “tiy_assignments” which is inside of their “iron_yard” folder.

Requirements

- Students should submit the assignment to the instructor, by right-clicking the “day_01” folder and selecting “compress “day_01”” . This will zip the folder so it can be emailed to the instructor at abby@theironyard.com.

#### Design Critique
- Find one example of a website that has good design and be ready to defend the your decision


